 
Wolves hunt in packs and have voracious appetites – adults can eat up to 4.5 kg of meat in a single day. 
Wolves are born with blue eyes, but they change colour at around 6-8 weeks. 
A wolf has a reflective layer behind the retina of its eye called the tapetum lucidum.3 This allows it to see and navigate the darkness of the night.
When grey wolves reach the age of three, they can stay with their pack or break away. Young wolves travel hundreds of miles in pursuit of new territory, while others strike out closer to their former tribe.
Ravens feed on the carcass that wolves kill, but wolves don’t mind because the birds act as another set of eyes and ears, alerting wolves of danger.
It’s possible for wolves to have distinct dialects and they communicate through different kinds of howls.
A wolf has pointed ears, a short snout, and while they resemble dogs, they are typically larger in size. A wolf’s teeth are distinctive – they’re not just sharp; they also have the ability to crush bone. They have 42 teeth – just 10 more than humans, but with far more powerful jaws. Wolves have dense fur that covers their long, lithe bodies. Their fur comes in a range of colours and varies across species, with white, red brown, grey and black being the most common. A wolf’s coat has two layers – an upper layer with long, coarse and waterproof hairs called guard hairs, and a lower layer that is softer and more supple. Their spindly legs are powerful, allowing them to navigate vast distances and varied terrain.  Grey wolves may travel around 32-48 km a day while on the hunt for food and can cover even greater distances when prey is scarce. 
A wolf’s teeth are distinctive – they’re not just sharp but they have the ability to crush bone. 
 
Wolves live and hunt in groups called packs, and each pack has a rigid hierarchy. In a wolf pack, the dominant male and female, also called the breeding pair, hold the highest rank. They are responsible for guiding the pack while hunting, providing food, and defending the safety of the more vulnerable members and the territory of the pack. Researchers found that the dominant male and female of the group were very attuned to the pack’s needs. For the most part, the alpha pair perform parental duties – caring for the other weaker wolves in their pack and for the newborn pups. When the younger wolves of a pack grow stronger, they don’t assert their dominance over their elders. Instead, they disperse from the pack to form their own tight familial units. A lone wolf that does not find its own pack can be in danger, because the close bonding of the pack ensures that there’s always safety in numbers.